#Single-cell 
[Theis Lab](https://www.sc-best-practices.org/preamble.html)
## Single-cell best practices
Introduction
Single-cell ribonucleic acid ([RNA](https://www.sc-best-practices.org/glossary.html#term-RNA)) sequencing assays

- Cells are the builiding block of life. Cells the basic unit of life, are of different types. They evolve during their development. Their function, shape and gene expression profiles ( the genes that they express) can change due to disease or other causes. If there are strong disruptions in the system  that affect and cause the cells to not be regulated this can affect the whole system and lead to diseases as cancer. 

- Understanding how cells work can be done in many ways, one of them is to study the gene expression profile of each individual cell. Initially only the transcriptome information of the cell was studied. This can be enriched with spatial, chromatic accessbility or protein information.  

- Sequencing: Break down the order of DNA nucleotides.  For a specific DNA segment, for complete genome, of complex micriobiome.  Find location and function of genes, understand open reading frames (ORFs), promoter regions & CpG islands. Applications: Evolutionary analysis, associationd between mutations and diseases among others.  E.g - Sickle  cell disease. Single nucleotide mutation in GAG codon to GTG codon in B-globin gene causing aminoacid substitution. 
History of sequencing 
1800 - 1950 - 1960 - 1970-1980 - 1990 - 2000  -2010 - 2020

- First generation sequencing - SANGER 
	- Strengths: Simple and affordable with very low error rate (<0.001%).
	- Limitations: Short pieces of DNA of about 300 to 1000 base pairs (bp). No good quality in the first 15-40 bp ( primer binding zone)
	-   Sanger sequencing is more expensive than second or third generation sequencing per sequenced base.

Second generation sequencing - next-generation sequencing (NGS)  

1996, Mostafa Ronaghi, Mathias Uhlen, and Pȧl Nyŕen - pyrosequencing,  Pyrosequencing measures luminescence that is generated by pyrophosphate synthesis during sequencing. “sequencing-by-synthesis”. 
1998 - Shankar Balasubramanian and David Klenerman -  sequencing-by-synthesis process + fluorescent dyes at the company Solexa. 
Solexa’s technology also forms the basis of Illumina’s sequencers, which dominate the market today. 
2005 - The Roche 454 sequencer  -  automate the pyrosequencing Many 2007 - SOLiD systems’ “sequencing-by-ligation”
2011 -  Life Technologies’ Ion Torrent - “sequencing-by-synthesis” to detect hydrogen ions when new DNA is synthesized.

Strengths:
-   Second generation sequencing - cheapest for required chemicals.
-   High sensitivity to detect low-frequency variants 
-   Comprehensive genome coverage.
-   High capacity with sample multiplexing
-   Sequence thousands of genes simultaneously

Limitations:
-   The sequencing machines expensive 
-    Big, stationary machines and not designed for field work.
-   Results in many short sequencing fragments (reads) which are hard to use for novel genomes
-   The quality of sequencing result is dependent on the reference genome







